.Dd July 22, 2016
.Dt MVI 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mvi
.Nd vi-like mail interface
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is nice.
.Sh VI COMMANDS
The follwing commands are available in normal mode.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy [n] <control-B>
Move
.Ar n
pages backwards.
.It Sy [n] <control-E>
Scroll
.Ar n
lines forwards.
.It Sy [n] <control-F>
Move
.Ar n
pages forwards.
.It Sy [n] <control-Y>
Scroll
.Ar n
lines backwards.
.It Sy [n] <enter>
.It Sy [n] +
.It Sy [n] j
Move the cursor
.Ar n
lines down.
.It Sy [n] -
.It Sy [n] k
Move the cursor
.Ar n
lines up.
.It Sy <escape>
Return into default mode.
.It Sy [n] [[
Move
.Ar n
times to the next parent message.
.It Sy [n] ]]
Move
.Ar n
times to the next child message.
.It Sy [n] \&(
Todo
.Ar n .
.It Sy [n] \&)
Todo
.Ar n .
.It Sy [n] {
Move
.Ar n
threads backward.
.It Sy [n] }
Move
.Ar n
threads forward.
.It Sy [n] \&^
Move
.Ar n
parent mails up.
.It Sy \&_
Move to the end of the current thread.
.It Sy m [a-zA-Z]
Mark the current line as character
.Ar [a-zA-Z] .
.It Sy ` [a-zA-Z]
.It Sy ' [a-zA-Z]
Return to the line marked as character
.Ar [a-zA-Z] .
.El
.Sh VI TEXT INPUT COMMANDS
The following key bindings are available in the text input mode.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy <erase>
.It Sy <control-H>
Erase the last character.
.It Sy <escape>
Return to command mode.
.It Sy <control-W>
Erase the last word.
.It Sy <control-U>
Erase entire input line.
.El
.Sh EX COMMANDS
The following sections describes ex commands, where the headline is the
usage synposis of the command with a description following.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy \&!cmd [args...]
Execute a shell command.
.It Sy q[uit][!]
Exit.
.It Sy =
Output the current line number.
.It Sy [msgs] ma[rk] [a-zA-Z]
Mark the current or last message in
.Ar msgs
as character
.Ar [a-zA-Z] .
.It Sy [msgs] p[rint]
Print the current or all lines in
.Ar msgs .
.It Sy [msgs] g[lobal] \&/header\&:regex\&/ [commands]
.It Sy [msgs] v \&/header\&:regex\&/ [commands]
Run
.Ar commands
on all or messages in
.Ar msgs
matching (or in case of
.Ar v
not matching)
.Ar regex .
See
.Xr magrep 1
for the
.Ar header
and
.Ar pattern
syntax.
.It Sy [msgs]
Move to last message in
.Ar msgs .
.El
.Pp
See
.Xr mmsg 7
for the message argument syntax
.Ar ( msgs )
for many of the commands.
Additionally
.Nm
supports the following
.Ar msgs
shortcuts\&:
.Bl -tag -width 3n
.It Sq Li \&%
refers all messages (like
.Sq Li 1\&:\&$ ) .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ed 1 ,
.Xr neatvi 1 ,
.Xr vi 1 ,
.Xr vim 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Duncan Overbruck Aq Mt mail@duncano.de
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is in the public domain.
.Pp
To the extent possible under law,
the creator of this work
has waived all copyright and related or
neighboring rights to this work.
.Pp
.Lk http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
